quickstarts/301-sap-gateway/README.md, before:

<!-- This document is auto-generated. Do not edit directly. Make changes to README.md.tmpl instead. -->
# SAP Connectivity Runtime Setup (301 level)

This Terraform module aims to provide a fully managed infrastructure that integrates Microsoft's Power Platform and Azure services with SAP Systems. Utilizing  `azurerm` and `azurecaf` Terraform providers, this module encapsulates best practices and serves as a reference architecture for scalable, reliable, and manageable cloud infrastructure.

In order to provide connectivity between SAP and Microsoft services, it is required to install a set runtime software and also setup particular configuration.
This document is a guide to setup a Terraform script to provision the Virtual Machine and all the requirements to connect the SHIR (Self-hosted Integration Runtime),
the Microsoft Gateway and SAP .NET Connector.

## Prerequisites and Preparation

- Azure subscription
- All the credentials for Azure resources creation.
- Service Principal or User Account with permissions configured as referenced in [the provider's user documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/terraform-provider-power-platform#authentication).

### SAP Systems

For the execution of this Terraform script, you do not need the SAP credentials or the application server information. However, it is important to know how to connect to the SAP system to provide proper information to the script.

The scenario covered by this script is the SAP system installed on-premisses on Azure, and you cannot use a public address, so you will need to provide the subnet ID where the SAP system is installed.

The subnet ID is available at the JSON view of the virtual network, in the parameter id. It is expected something like below:

`/subscriptions/abababab-12ab-ab00-82e2-aa00babab102/resourceGroups/resouce-group-name/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/VNet-name/subnets/default`

### Storage Account Preparation

Before you execute the script, you need to upload the SAP .NET Connector MSI file the folder `./storage-account/sapnco-msi` and rename to `sapnco.msi` (check below for more information).

### SHIR Nodes Preparation

Make sure there is not any node assigned to the self-hosted integration runtime at Synapse or ADF.

## Example Files

The example files can be found in `quickstarts/301-sap-gateway`

## Provider Requirements

The Terraform plugins or "providers" that this IaC deployment requires are:

- **azurecaf (`aztfmod/azurecaf`):** `>=>=1.2.26`

- **azurerm (`hashicorp/azurerm`):** `>=>=3.74.0`

- **random:** (any version)

## Input Variables

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| `base_name` | The base name which should be used for all resources name | string | `"AzureSAPIntegration"` | false |
| `client_id_gw` | The client ID / app ID of the service principal where the on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `client_id_pp` | The client ID / app ID of the service principal with Power Platform admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `environment` | tag name of the environment like dev, stg, prod | string | `null` | true |
| `gateway_name` | The name of the gateway to be created on Power Platform | string | `null` | true |
| `prefix` | The prefix which should be used for all resources name | string | `"opdgw"` | false |
| `recover_key_gw` | The recovery key of the gateway | string | `null` | true |
| `region_gw` | The Azure region where the resources in this example should be created | string | `null` | true |
| `sap_subnet_id` | The SAP system subnet ID | string | `null` | true |
| `secret_gw` | The secret of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `secret_pp` | The secret of the service principal with Power Platform admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `shir_key` | Value of the secret name for the IR key | string | `null` | true |
| `subscription_id_gw` | The subscription ID of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `tags` | A map of tags to add to all resources | map(string) | `{"costcenter":"12345","department":"IT","environment":"dev"}` | false |
| `tenant_id_gw` | The tenant ID of service principal or user | string | `null` | true |
| `tenant_id_pp` | The tenant ID of service principal or user at Power Platform | string | `null` | true |
| `user_id_admin_pp` | The user ID to be assigned as Admin role of the Power Platform | string | `null` | true |

## Resources

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_irkey` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_pp` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_recover_key` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_vm_pwd` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.nic` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.nsg` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.publicip` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.rg` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.subnet` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.vnet` from `azurecaf`

- `azurerm_key_vault.key_vault` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_irkey` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_pp` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_recover_key` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_vm_pwd` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_interface.nic` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_interface_security_group_association.rgassociation` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_security_group.nsg` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_public_ip.publicip` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_resource_group.rg` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_subnet.subnet` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_subnet_network_security_group_association.example` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_virtual_network.vnet` from `azurerm`

- `random_string.key_vault_suffix` from `random`

- `random_string.vm_pwd` from `random`

## Data Sources

- `data.azurerm_client_config.current` from `azurerm`

## Child Modules

- `gateway_vm` from `./gateway-vm`

- `storage_account` from `./storage-account`

## Usage

The entire script is required for the proper installation, unless you decide to create any one of the resources separatelly.

You have to execute the normal Terraform commands:

``terraform init -upgrade

``terraform plan -var-file=local.tfvars

``terraform apply -var-file=local.tfvars

``terraform destroy -var-file=local.tfvars

## Terraform Version Constraints

- azurerm `>=3.74.0`
- azurecaf `>=1.2.26`

## Detailed Behavior

### On-Premise Data Gateway

A Windows Virtual Machine is created with all the software connectors required to connect on-premise data gateway and self-hosted integration runtime.

It is the list of software installed on the Virtual Machine:

#### PowerShell 7

It is required to execute the script for the on-premise data gateway installation. After VM creation, the [script](./gateway-vm/scripts/ps7-setup.ps1) download and install PowerShell 7.

#### Java Runtime

It is required for SHIR runtime and SAP data flows. Check the [prerequisites](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/create-self-hosted-integration-runtime?tabs=data-factory#prerequisites) in the documentation for more details.

#### Microsoft Self-Hosted Integration Runtime (SHIR)

It is the runtime used to connect the VM to SHIR in Synapse/ADF/Fabric. Check the [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/create-self-hosted-integration-runtime) for more details.

#### SAP Connector for .Net

It is the runtime used to connect the VM to SAP system. You need to [download the MSI file](https://support.sap.com/en/product/connectors/msnet.html) and upload to the folder mentioned above. The installation provided in this guide, follows this [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/sap-change-data-capture-shir-preparation).

#### On-Premises Data Gateway

It is the runtime used to connect to the Power Platform connectors (e.g. SAP ERP). Here is some references used to created the script:

- [Learn how to install On-premises data gateway for Azure Analysis Services | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/analysis-services/analysis-services-gateway-install?tabs=azure-powershell)
- [Data Gateway Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/datagateway/?view=datagateway-ps)

### Power Platform Resources

A PowerApps Environment is created.

### Network

All resources are provisioned within the same Azure Virtual Network where the SAP System is installed (`sap_subnet_id` input parameter), ensuring that they can communicate securely without exposure to the public internet.

## Limitations and Considerations

- Due to Power Platform limitations, certain resources may not fully support Terraform's state management.
- Make sure to set appropriate RBAC for Azure and Power Platform resources.
- This module is provided as a sample only and is not intended for production use without further customization.

## Additional Resources

- [Power Platform Admin Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/)
- [Azure AD Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azuread/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_configuration)
- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/wp-onpremises-gateway>

Commit message:

Adding readme for gateway principal.

quickstarts/301-sap-gateway/README.md, after:

<!-- This document is auto-generated. Do not edit directly. Make changes to README.md.tmpl instead. -->
# SAP Connectivity Runtime Setup (301 level)

This Terraform module aims to provide a fully managed infrastructure that integrates Microsoft's Power Platform and Azure services with SAP Systems. Utilizing  `azurerm` and `azurecaf` Terraform providers, this module encapsulates best practices and serves as a reference architecture for scalable, reliable, and manageable cloud infrastructure.

In order to provide connectivity between SAP and Microsoft services, it is required to install a set runtime software and also setup particular configuration.
This document is a guide to setup a Terraform script to provision the Virtual Machine and all the requirements to connect the SHIR (Self-hosted Integration Runtime),
the Microsoft Gateway and SAP .NET Connector.

## Prerequisites and Preparation

- Azure subscription
- All the credentials for Azure resources creation.
- Service Principal or User Account with permissions configured as referenced in [the provider's user documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/terraform-provider-power-platform#authentication),
we provide a terraform script to create a Service Principal with the required configuration in the folder `./gateway-principal`.


### SAP Systems

For the execution of this Terraform script, you do not need the SAP credentials or the application server information. However, it is important to know how to connect to the SAP system to provide proper information to the script.

The scenario covered by this script is the SAP system installed on-premisses on Azure, and you cannot use a public address, so you will need to provide the subnet ID where the SAP system is installed.

The subnet ID is available at the JSON view of the virtual network, in the parameter id. It is expected something like below:

`/subscriptions/abababab-12ab-ab00-82e2-aa00babab102/resourceGroups/resouce-group-name/providers/Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/VNet-name/subnets/default`

### Storage Account Preparation

Before you execute the script, you need to upload the SAP .NET Connector MSI file the folder `./storage-account/sapnco-msi` and rename to `sapnco.msi` (check below for more information).

### SHIR Nodes Preparation

Make sure there is not any node assigned to the self-hosted integration runtime at Synapse or ADF.

## Example Files

The example files can be found in `quickstarts/301-sap-gateway`

## Provider Requirements

The Terraform plugins or "providers" that this IaC deployment requires are:

- **azurecaf (`aztfmod/azurecaf`):** `>=>=1.2.26`

- **azurerm (`hashicorp/azurerm`):** `>=>=3.74.0`

- **random:** (any version)

## Input Variables

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| `base_name` | The base name which should be used for all resources name | string | `"AzureSAPIntegration"` | false |
| `client_id_gw` | The client ID / app ID of the service principal where the on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `client_id_pp` | The client ID / app ID of the service principal with Power Platform admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `environment` | tag name of the environment like dev, stg, prod | string | `null` | true |
| `gateway_name` | The name of the gateway to be created on Power Platform | string | `null` | true |
| `prefix` | The prefix which should be used for all resources name | string | `"opdgw"` | false |
| `recover_key_gw` | The recovery key of the gateway | string | `null` | true |
| `region_gw` | The Azure region where the resources in this example should be created | string | `null` | true |
| `sap_subnet_id` | The SAP system subnet ID | string | `null` | true |
| `secret_gw` | The secret of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `secret_pp` | The secret of the service principal with Power Platform admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `shir_key` | Value of the secret name for the IR key | string | `null` | true |
| `subscription_id_gw` | The subscription ID of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `tags` | A map of tags to add to all resources | map(string) | `{"costcenter":"12345","department":"IT","environment":"dev"}` | false |
| `tenant_id_gw` | The tenant ID of service principal or user | string | `null` | true |
| `tenant_id_pp` | The tenant ID of service principal or user at Power Platform | string | `null` | true |
| `user_id_admin_pp` | The user ID to be assigned as Admin role of the Power Platform | string | `null` | true |

## Resources

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_irkey` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_pp` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_recover_key` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.key_vault_secret_vm_pwd` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.nic` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.nsg` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.publicip` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.rg` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.subnet` from `azurecaf`

- `azurecaf_name.vnet` from `azurecaf`

- `azurerm_key_vault.key_vault` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_irkey` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_pp` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_recover_key` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_key_vault_secret.key_vault_secret_vm_pwd` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_interface.nic` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_interface_security_group_association.rgassociation` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_network_security_group.nsg` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_public_ip.publicip` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_resource_group.rg` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_subnet.subnet` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_subnet_network_security_group_association.example` from `azurerm`

- `azurerm_virtual_network.vnet` from `azurerm`

- `random_string.key_vault_suffix` from `random`

- `random_string.vm_pwd` from `random`

## Data Sources

- `data.azurerm_client_config.current` from `azurerm`

## Child Modules

- `gateway_vm` from `./gateway-vm`

- `storage_account` from `./storage-account`

## Usage

The entire script is required for the proper installation, unless you decide to create any one of the resources separatelly.


> [!NOTE]
> To use Terraform commands against your Azure subscription, you must first authenticate Terraform to that subscription. The article [Authenticate Terraform to Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/terraform/authenticate-to-azure?tabs=bash)
> provides guidance on how to do this, remember to choose the correct subscription.
> It is highly recommended that you use the [VS Code Dev Container](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers) to run the scripts and terraform modules in this repository.

You have to execute the normal Terraform commands:

``terraform init -upgrade

``terraform plan -var-file=local.tfvars

``terraform apply -var-file=local.tfvars

``terraform destroy -var-file=local.tfvars

## Terraform Version Constraints

- azurerm `>=3.74.0`
- azurecaf `>=1.2.26`

## Detailed Behavior

### On-Premise Data Gateway

A Windows Virtual Machine is created with all the software connectors required to connect on-premise data gateway and self-hosted integration runtime.

It is the list of software installed on the Virtual Machine:

#### PowerShell 7

It is required to execute the script for the on-premise data gateway installation. After VM creation, the [script](./gateway-vm/scripts/ps7-setup.ps1) download and install PowerShell 7.

#### Java Runtime

It is required for SHIR runtime and SAP data flows. Check the [prerequisites](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/create-self-hosted-integration-runtime?tabs=data-factory#prerequisites) in the documentation for more details.

#### Microsoft Self-Hosted Integration Runtime (SHIR)

It is the runtime used to connect the VM to SHIR in Synapse/ADF/Fabric. Check the [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/create-self-hosted-integration-runtime) for more details.

#### SAP Connector for .Net

It is the runtime used to connect the VM to SAP system. You need to [download the MSI file](https://support.sap.com/en/product/connectors/msnet.html) and upload to the folder mentioned above. The installation provided in this guide, follows this [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-factory/sap-change-data-capture-shir-preparation).

#### On-Premises Data Gateway

It is the runtime used to connect to the Power Platform connectors (e.g. SAP ERP). Here is some references used to created the script:

- [Learn how to install On-premises data gateway for Azure Analysis Services | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/analysis-services/analysis-services-gateway-install?tabs=azure-powershell)
- [Data Gateway Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/datagateway/?view=datagateway-ps)

### Power Platform Resources

A PowerApps Environment is created.

### Network

All resources are provisioned within the same Azure Virtual Network where the SAP System is installed (`sap_subnet_id` input parameter), ensuring that they can communicate securely without exposure to the public internet.

## Limitations and Considerations

- Due to Power Platform limitations, certain resources may not fully support Terraform's state management.
- Make sure to set appropriate RBAC for Azure and Power Platform resources.
- This module is provided as a sample only and is not intended for production use without further customization.

## Additional Resources

- [Power Platform Admin Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/)
- [Azure AD Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azuread/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_configuration)
- <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/wp-onpremises-gateway>
