quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/README.md, before:

<!-- This document is auto-generated. Do not edit directly. Make changes to README.md.tmpl instead. -->
# PaC with checkov example (300 level)

This example demonstrates how to use checkov to detect security or policy misconfigurations using terraform to deploy an Azure storage account and a blob container.

# Policy as Code (PaC)

Policy As Code is a DevOps Practice that verify and enforce security configurations when you deploy Infrastructure, can also ben use to force the configuration of other policy checks like enable encryption of disks on virtual machines or the replication of storage or databases on different regions.

Policy as code is a practice of managing and defining policies in a code-like format, which can be version-controlled, tested, and automatically deployed. This approach allows for the automation of policy enforcement and compliance, making it easier to manage and maintain policies across an organization.

## Prerequisites

- Checkov and Python are already configured on the dev container of this repo, we recommend using the dev container.
- Entra ID Tenant
- Azure subscription where the terraform state will be stored
- Power Platform environment (optional)

## Example Files

The example files can be found in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov`

## Provider Requirements
- **azurecaf (`aztfmod/azurecaf`):** `>=>=1.2.26`
- **azurerm (`hashicorp/azurerm`):** `>=>=3.74.0`

## Input Variables

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| `base_name` | The base name which should be used for all resources name | string | `"pac"` | false |
| `location` | The Azure region where the resources in this example should be created | string | `null` | true |
| `prefix` | The prefix which should be used for all resources name | string | `"pac"` | false |
| `subscription_id` | The subscription ID of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `tenant_id` | The tenant ID of service principal or user at Power Platform | string | `null` | true |

## Resources
- `azurecaf_name.rg` from `azurecaf`
- `azurerm_resource_group.rg` from `azurerm`

## Example Files

The example files can be found in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov`

## Input Variables

Variables and their purpose can be found in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/variables.tf`

## PaC example steps

- Clone the repo on your computer.
- Select the PaC example branch
- Start the dev container, this process can take a couple of minutes.
- We include a basic terraform storage account creation example in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/main.tf`
- Look to the file and identify the resources that you can deploy with this terraform file.
- Run the azure login command and authenticate with azure services.
- Open the `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/tfcheckov.sh` and look to the commands that are required to run checkov and terraform.
- Run checkov, we create the tfcheckov.sh (described above), to do that on the dev container console execute the “sh” file “./tfcheckov.sh”.

 ```bash
./tfcheckov.sh
```

- The first time that you run the command you will not receive any warning this is expected because the storage account is commented.
- Uncomment the storage account part, save the file and run checkov again.
- Now you will receive checkov warnings, for example one could be to enable GRS for the storage account.
- Enable GRS, change the account_replication_type from "LRS" to be "GRS", save the file and run checkov again.

 ```hcl
resource "azurerm_storage_account" "storage_account" {
  name                     = azurecaf_name.storage_account_name.result
  resource_group_name      = azurerm_resource_group.rg.name
  location                 = azurerm_resource_group.rg.location
  account_tier             = "Standard"
  account_replication_type = "GRS"
}

```

 ```bash
./tfcheckov.sh
```

The goal is to see the checkov behavior and solve a couple of those warnings.

## Additional Resources

- [Checkov Terraform scans](https://www.checkov.io/5.Policy%20Index/terraform.html)

Commit message:

Fixing MD problems for tmpl files.

quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/README.md, after:

<!-- This document is auto-generated. Do not edit directly. Make changes to README.md.tmpl instead. -->
# PaC with checkov example (300 level)

This example demonstrates how to use checkov to detect security or policy misconfigurations using terraform to deploy an Azure storage account and a blob container.

# Policy as Code (PaC)

Policy As Code is a DevOps Practice that verify and enforce security configurations when you deploy Infrastructure, can also ben use to force the configuration of other policy checks like enable encryption of disks on virtual machines or the replication of storage or databases on different regions.

Policy as code is a practice of managing and defining policies in a code-like format, which can be version-controlled, tested, and automatically deployed. This approach allows for the automation of policy enforcement and compliance, making it easier to manage and maintain policies across an organization.

## Prerequisites

- Checkov and Python are already configured on the dev container of this repo, we recommend using the dev container.
- Entra ID Tenant
- Azure subscription where the terraform state will be stored
- Power Platform environment (optional)

## Example Files

The example files can be found in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov`

## Provider Requirements

The Terraform plugins or "providers" that this IaC deployment requires are:

- **azurecaf (`aztfmod/azurecaf`):** `>=>=1.2.26`

- **azurerm (`hashicorp/azurerm`):** `>=>=3.74.0`

## Input Variables

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| `base_name` | The base name which should be used for all resources name | string | `"pac"` | false |
| `location` | The Azure region where the resources in this example should be created | string | `null` | true |
| `prefix` | The prefix which should be used for all resources name | string | `"pac"` | false |
| `subscription_id` | The subscription ID of the service principal with on-premise data gateway admin permissions | string | `null` | true |
| `tenant_id` | The tenant ID of service principal or user at Power Platform | string | `null` | true |

## Resources

- `azurecaf_name.rg` from `azurecaf`

- `azurerm_resource_group.rg` from `azurerm`

## PaC example steps

- Clone the repo on your computer.
- Select the PaC example branch
- Start the dev container, this process can take a couple of minutes.
- We include a basic terraform storage account creation example in `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/main.tf`
- Look to the file and identify the resources that you can deploy with this terraform file.
- Run the azure login command and authenticate with azure services.
- Open the `quickstarts/300-pac-checkov/tfcheckov.sh` and look to the commands that are required to run checkov and terraform.
- Run checkov, we create the tfcheckov.sh (described above), to do that on the dev container console execute the “sh” file “./tfcheckov.sh”.

 ```bash
./tfcheckov.sh
```

- The first time that you run the command you will not receive any warning this is expected because the storage account is commented.
- Uncomment the storage account part, save the file and run checkov again.
- Now you will receive checkov warnings, for example one could be to enable GRS for the storage account.
- Enable GRS, change the account_replication_type from "LRS" to be "GRS", save the file and run checkov again.

 ```hcl
resource "azurerm_storage_account" "storage_account" {
  name                     = azurecaf_name.storage_account_name.result
  resource_group_name      = azurerm_resource_group.rg.name
  location                 = azurerm_resource_group.rg.location
  account_tier             = "Standard"
  account_replication_type = "GRS"
}

```

 ```bash
./tfcheckov.sh
```

The goal is to see the checkov behavior and solve a couple of those warnings.

## Additional Resources

- [Checkov Terraform scans](https://www.checkov.io/5.Policy%20Index/terraform.html)
